README.md, before:

🌺 Hibiscus
AI-Powered Universal Study Workspace

Hibiscus is a full-stack AI learning platform designed to transform passive studying into active understanding.

Students can upload PDFs, paste text, or submit web URLs, highlight content directly inside the platform, and instantly convert those highlights into AI-generated summaries, flashcards, and exam-ready notes — all within a single, organized workspace.

Unlike traditional note-taking or summarization tools, Hibiscus actively evaluates how well a student understands the material and adapts the learning process accordingly.


🏗 Tech Stack
🎨 Frontend

React.js – Component-based UI development

Tailwind CSS – Utility-first styling for fast and responsive design

PDF.js – In-browser PDF rendering and text highlighting

Vite – Fast development server and build tool

⚙️ Backend

Node.js – Server-side JavaScript runtime

Express.js – REST API framework

SQLite (better-sqlite3) – Lightweight database for fast local and server-side storage
(used for rapid development and deployment on Render)

🤖 AI Integration

Google AI Studio (Gemini API) –

Flashcard generation

Summarization

Active recall evaluation

Debate and critical thinking prompts

Simplification of complex content

🔐 Authentication & Security

JWT (JSON Web Tokens) – Secure session handling

bcrypt – Password hashing and encryption

Environment Variables – Secure API key management

☁️ Deployment

Render – Hosting for backend and full-stack application

GitHub – Version control and CI-based deployments

🛠 Developer Tools

VS Code – Development environment

npm – Package management

Git – Source control

Features

Universal Study Workspace
Upload PDFs, paste text, or submit web URLs. Study everything in one place with an integrated reader and highlighter.

AI-Powered Study Material Generation
Instantly convert highlights into summaries, flashcards, exam-ready answers, and quick revision sheets using AI.

Active Recall Evaluation (Explain-It-Back)
Explain concepts in your own words and receive an AI-generated understanding score, missing key points, and improvement feedback.

Confusion Detection & Simplification
Detects confusion based on reading behavior and offers simplified explanations when users struggle with a section.

AI Debate Mode
Builds critical thinking by generating counter-arguments and challenges to test deep conceptual understanding.

Focus & Procrastination Monitoring
Tracks inactivity and tab switching, triggers focus reminders, and maintains study streaks.

Installation commands

npm install
This installs all required backend and frontend packages.
Configure Environment Variables

 Build the Frontend
npm run build
This generates the production-ready frontend in the dist/ folder.

Start the Application
npm start
The app will be available at:
http://localhost:3000
Development Mode
npm run dev
Runs the app with hot-reloading for development.


Run commands

Run in Development Mode
npm run dev                                                                                                                                                       Run in Production Mode (Local)
npm run build
npm start

SCREENSHOTS

![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 06](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9146e97a-5999-44fa-a43f-8357a14a6283)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 06 (1)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/47e45e03-dd1e-48ff-ad36-b1ef211f4aff)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 06 (2)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a0a9621e-206c-48e6-927f-310d50cdd6a2)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 07](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/715e6e3c-96db-4229-ad30-9738dd3f5423)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 07 (1)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4e22fe6c-8519-4c9e-9b4e-22d4535fd7df)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 07 (2)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f7c3223c-6aa2-46c7-b1c2-23b03d20779b)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 07 (3)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ee6052b2-464d-4e9f-bbd8-8076ca373896)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 07 (4)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dc9f6002-966d-496e-a69b-32116851917c)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 07 (5)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f9b13d49-840b-49d8-b1fb-7bf4c47e7451)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 14 00](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/de349f1d-cbe3-45f7-bebe-5ead2027646b)


DEMO VIDEO LINK
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1euOZ_NDXJMlxATxchr6cK2r01Kjq1qm7/view?usp=sharing


API Documentation

Hibiscus provides a RESTful backend API built with Express.js and SQLite.
These APIs power lesson management, document storage, highlighting, study tracking, and content extraction.

All endpoints are prefixed with:

/api
📂 Lessons API
GET /api/lessons

Fetch all study lessons (workspaces).

Response

[
  {
    "id": "lesson-id",
    "title": "Operating Systems",
    "description": "CPU scheduling concepts",
    "created_at": "2026-02-27 10:12:34"
  }
]
POST /api/lessons

Create a new lesson.

Request Body

{
  "title": "Computer Networks",
  "description": "OSI model and protocols"
}

Response

{
  "id": "generated-lesson-id"
}
DELETE /api/lessons/:id

Delete a lesson and all associated documents, highlights, flashcards, and study sessions.

📄 Documents API
GET /api/lessons/:id/documents

Fetch all documents under a specific lesson.

POST /api/documents

Add a document to a lesson.

Request Body

{
  "id": "document-id",
  "lesson_id": "lesson-id",
  "title": "CPU Scheduling Notes",
  "content": "Raw text or extracted content",
  "type": "pdf"
}
GET /api/documents

Fetch all documents across all lessons.

GET /api/documents/:id

Fetch a single document along with its highlights.

Response

{
  "id": "document-id",
  "title": "CPU Scheduling",
  "content": "...",
  "type": "text",
  "highlights": [
    {
      "id": "highlight-id",
      "text": "A process is a program in execution",
      "color": "#facc15",
      "tags": "definition"
    }
  ]
}
DELETE /api/documents/:id

Delete a document and all related highlights, flashcards, and study sessions.

✏ Highlights API
POST /api/highlights

Save a highlighted section from a document.

Request Body

{
  "id": "highlight-id",
  "document_id": "document-id",
  "text": "Important highlighted content",
  "color": "#fde047",
  "tags": "important,exam"
}
GET /api/lessons/:id/highlights

Fetch all highlights belonging to a lesson.

🧠 Study Sessions & Analytics
POST /api/sessions

Store a study session record.

Request Body

{
  "id": "session-id",
  "document_id": "document-id",
  "duration": 420,
  "confusion_alerts": 1,
  "recall_score": 82
}
GET /api/stats

Fetch aggregated study statistics.

Response

{
  "totalDocs": 5,
  "totalHighlights": 41,
  "avgRecall": 78,
  "totalTime": 2400,
  "totalDistractions": 3
}
🌐 Web Content Extraction
POST /api/fetch-url

Extract readable content from a web URL.

Request Body

{
  "url": "https://example.com/article"
}

Response

{
  "title": "Article Title",
  "content": "Cleaned and structured article text"
}
🔐 Authentication (Demo-Level)
POST /api/auth/login

Simple login / auto-register endpoint.

Request Body

{
  "email": "student@example.com",
  "name": "Student Name"
}
GET /api/auth/me


ARCHITECTURE DIAGRAM

<img width="306" height="475" alt="Screenshot 2026-02-28 082741" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7e8518d5-a1db-4328-b66b-7697282d784e" />

  |  • Lessons API            
  |  • Documents API          
  |  • Highlights API


<img width="376" height="480" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/461adaa7-3564-4810-859f-a285064903f2" />



TEAM MEMBERS

1.CATHERINE MARIA BASTIN

2.NEEHARA ANNA BINCE

Commit message:

Include MIT License in README
Added MIT License information to the README file.

README.md, after:

🌺 Hibiscus
AI-Powered Universal Study Workspace

Hibiscus is a full-stack AI learning platform designed to transform passive studying into active understanding.

Students can upload PDFs, paste text, or submit web URLs, highlight content directly inside the platform, and instantly convert those highlights into AI-generated summaries, flashcards, and exam-ready notes — all within a single, organized workspace.

Unlike traditional note-taking or summarization tools, Hibiscus actively evaluates how well a student understands the material and adapts the learning process accordingly.


🏗 Tech Stack
🎨 Frontend

React.js – Component-based UI development

Tailwind CSS – Utility-first styling for fast and responsive design

PDF.js – In-browser PDF rendering and text highlighting

Vite – Fast development server and build tool

⚙️ Backend

Node.js – Server-side JavaScript runtime

Express.js – REST API framework

SQLite (better-sqlite3) – Lightweight database for fast local and server-side storage
(used for rapid development and deployment on Render)

🤖 AI Integration

Google AI Studio (Gemini API) –

Flashcard generation

Summarization

Active recall evaluation

Debate and critical thinking prompts

Simplification of complex content

🔐 Authentication & Security

JWT (JSON Web Tokens) – Secure session handling

bcrypt – Password hashing and encryption

Environment Variables – Secure API key management

☁️ Deployment

Render – Hosting for backend and full-stack application

GitHub – Version control and CI-based deployments

🛠 Developer Tools

VS Code – Development environment

npm – Package management

Git – Source control

Features

Universal Study Workspace
Upload PDFs, paste text, or submit web URLs. Study everything in one place with an integrated reader and highlighter.

AI-Powered Study Material Generation
Instantly convert highlights into summaries, flashcards, exam-ready answers, and quick revision sheets using AI.

Active Recall Evaluation (Explain-It-Back)
Explain concepts in your own words and receive an AI-generated understanding score, missing key points, and improvement feedback.

Confusion Detection & Simplification
Detects confusion based on reading behavior and offers simplified explanations when users struggle with a section.

AI Debate Mode
Builds critical thinking by generating counter-arguments and challenges to test deep conceptual understanding.

Focus & Procrastination Monitoring
Tracks inactivity and tab switching, triggers focus reminders, and maintains study streaks.

Installation commands

npm install
This installs all required backend and frontend packages.
Configure Environment Variables

 Build the Frontend
npm run build
This generates the production-ready frontend in the dist/ folder.

Start the Application
npm start
The app will be available at:
http://localhost:3000
Development Mode
npm run dev
Runs the app with hot-reloading for development.


Run commands

Run in Development Mode
npm run dev                                                                                                                                                       Run in Production Mode (Local)
npm run build
npm start

SCREENSHOTS

![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 06](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9146e97a-5999-44fa-a43f-8357a14a6283)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 06 (1)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/47e45e03-dd1e-48ff-ad36-b1ef211f4aff)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 06 (2)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a0a9621e-206c-48e6-927f-310d50cdd6a2)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 07](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/715e6e3c-96db-4229-ad30-9738dd3f5423)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 07 (1)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4e22fe6c-8519-4c9e-9b4e-22d4535fd7df)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 07 (2)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f7c3223c-6aa2-46c7-b1c2-23b03d20779b)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 07 (3)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ee6052b2-464d-4e9f-bbd8-8076ca373896)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 07 (4)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dc9f6002-966d-496e-a69b-32116851917c)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 09 07 (5)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f9b13d49-840b-49d8-b1fb-7bf4c47e7451)
![WhatsApp Image 2026-02-28 at 08 14 00](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/de349f1d-cbe3-45f7-bebe-5ead2027646b)


DEMO VIDEO LINK
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1euOZ_NDXJMlxATxchr6cK2r01Kjq1qm7/view?usp=sharing


API Documentation

Hibiscus provides a RESTful backend API built with Express.js and SQLite.
These APIs power lesson management, document storage, highlighting, study tracking, and content extraction.

All endpoints are prefixed with:

/api
📂 Lessons API
GET /api/lessons

Fetch all study lessons (workspaces).

Response

[
  {
    "id": "lesson-id",
    "title": "Operating Systems",
    "description": "CPU scheduling concepts",
    "created_at": "2026-02-27 10:12:34"
  }
]
POST /api/lessons

Create a new lesson.

Request Body

{
  "title": "Computer Networks",
  "description": "OSI model and protocols"
}

Response

{
  "id": "generated-lesson-id"
}
DELETE /api/lessons/:id

Delete a lesson and all associated documents, highlights, flashcards, and study sessions.

📄 Documents API
GET /api/lessons/:id/documents

Fetch all documents under a specific lesson.

POST /api/documents

Add a document to a lesson.

Request Body

{
  "id": "document-id",
  "lesson_id": "lesson-id",
  "title": "CPU Scheduling Notes",
  "content": "Raw text or extracted content",
  "type": "pdf"
}
GET /api/documents

Fetch all documents across all lessons.

GET /api/documents/:id

Fetch a single document along with its highlights.

Response

{
  "id": "document-id",
  "title": "CPU Scheduling",
  "content": "...",
  "type": "text",
  "highlights": [
    {
      "id": "highlight-id",
      "text": "A process is a program in execution",
      "color": "#facc15",
      "tags": "definition"
    }
  ]
}
DELETE /api/documents/:id

Delete a document and all related highlights, flashcards, and study sessions.

✏ Highlights API
POST /api/highlights

Save a highlighted section from a document.

Request Body

{
  "id": "highlight-id",
  "document_id": "document-id",
  "text": "Important highlighted content",
  "color": "#fde047",
  "tags": "important,exam"
}
GET /api/lessons/:id/highlights

Fetch all highlights belonging to a lesson.

🧠 Study Sessions & Analytics
POST /api/sessions

Store a study session record.

Request Body

{
  "id": "session-id",
  "document_id": "document-id",
  "duration": 420,
  "confusion_alerts": 1,
  "recall_score": 82
}
GET /api/stats

Fetch aggregated study statistics.

Response

{
  "totalDocs": 5,
  "totalHighlights": 41,
  "avgRecall": 78,
  "totalTime": 2400,
  "totalDistractions": 3
}
🌐 Web Content Extraction
POST /api/fetch-url

Extract readable content from a web URL.

Request Body

{
  "url": "https://example.com/article"
}

Response

{
  "title": "Article Title",
  "content": "Cleaned and structured article text"
}
🔐 Authentication (Demo-Level)
POST /api/auth/login

Simple login / auto-register endpoint.

Request Body

{
  "email": "student@example.com",
  "name": "Student Name"
}
GET /api/auth/me


ARCHITECTURE DIAGRAM

<img width="306" height="475" alt="Screenshot 2026-02-28 082741" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7e8518d5-a1db-4328-b66b-7697282d784e" />

  |  • Lessons API            
  |  • Documents API          
  |  • Highlights API


<img width="376" height="480" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/461adaa7-3564-4810-859f-a285064903f2" />


LICENSE INFO


MIT License

Copyright (c) 2026 Catherine Maria Bastin

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.


TEAM MEMBERS

1.CATHERINE MARIA BASTIN

2.NEEHARA ANNA BINCE
